Alright in this video we are going to
look at setting up command objects using
Spring. Right now in this video we're
going to be focusing on just setting up
the back end code. So my goal here is to
get the command object set up. We do need
to do some type conversions. I'm going to
show you exactly how we like to do that
inside the Spring framework and we'll
get the command objects going into
Spring, persisting to the database, doing
a type conversion to our any objects,
coming back out of the database, doing
another type conversion to our command
objects. So this is going to leave us all
set to handle the web front-end but
we're not going to touch that in this
video. We're going to focus on just
taking in these command objects, getting
them persisted to the database after a
type conversion which is very important
stuff. I am going to follow through
test-driven development so we'll have a
complete suite of tests for those. I
think there's about 30 different objects
that have been added or created in this
video. So I'm not going to be able to go
through every single line of code. I am
going to go through the very important
stuff of creating command objects amd
creating standard converters as Spring
bean components getting those wired into
context, creating a service that is
going to accept a command object. Convert
it, save it to the database
and then return an entity, convert that
to the command object on the other way
out. So we do have a pretty interesting
domain model here as far as the object
model that we're working with. So
everything is working now. I'm going to
step you through this we're going to get
into more testing because I coded this
up strictly by test-driven development.
So we do have a full set of tests to go
through and you're going to learn a
little bit more about testing Spring
applications and different annotations
that we need to use to bring up a larger
part of the Spring context so we can do
all this. So a lot of great content in
this video. Like I said, I'm not going to cover
every single line of code but you are
going to have a complete check at links
before and after inside of GitHub. So you
can go in and compare every single line of
code that I changed in this video. Alight we are going to
take a look at setting up command
objects. Now I've gone in and we've got a
lot of ground to cover here. First off I
created a set of command objects for our
data model. Now that you could
in theory and often done those ways to
actually expose your domain objects. This
is something I don't like and this is
more from experience because as your
project grows and becomes more complex,
your requirements of your domain objects
are going to be different than what you
are exposing to your web tier. So you are
going to have a different set of objects
and different set of needs there. So it's
very very common to see smaller projects
start off, exposing the domain objects
and using those to bind to web forms and
then evolve to where they're using
command objects. Because you don't want
to be exposing that particular type to
and from the web tier. So this is a
pretty common thing thing to do and I've
gone in and created a set of command
objects that model our data model. So here's a RecipeCommand and in
this case, I'm changing it up a little
bit with the project Lombok and using
getter and setter and no args constructor. So
this gives us just a simple POJO for our
use. Now to get this in and out of the
system, we want me to do a type
conversion. So we need to convert from
the type of the domain object back or
over to the command object and
vice-versa. So what I've done is let's
grab a really really simple one right
now. The Spring framework has an
interface for converter. It takes in
two types and this is going to implement
the convert method and so take in one of
the types and convert it to the other, it
is null safe or nullable. So it is able
to return null so that's very important
and then it will return back an instance
of the converted type. And on these, it's
very important that Spring does not
guarantee thread safety. So I am using
Project Lombok's synchronized method
there on line 16. So that makes us
synchronized and thread safe
so we can run this in a multi-threaded
environment and I am declaring all
my variables final. So that they are in
theory immutable. So that gives us a
little more code security. Now I did go
through and did test-driven development
on this so you're going to see a
complete set of tests for this. Simply
find the tests for that. So here's a test
and on most of the tests, I'm not going
to go through every test. I go through
have a setUp sub where I create the new
converter. I make sure that it takes in
nulls and this is pretty common. It's a
very easy thing to do. It is to miss a null
value or a null pointer so in every
example I am doing one where I just pass
in null. Make sure it returns
null as expected and then I expected to
return back at least an empty object and
not toss a null pointer exception. And
then I go through and test and make sure
that the values are actually being set
properly. Now you can see that we do get
more complex things. So like our
ingredient test actually has a
dependency upon the unit of measures.
So our ingredient converter is going to
take in a constructor parameter of a
unit of measure converter and this is
going to happen both ways. And then the
most complex model that we have is our
recipe converter. Let's take a look at that. So
this guy is going to have actually
three different converters. A total of
four because well I'm just going to be
nested down and all these
converters are Spring components. So
Spring is going to manage it at runtime
and wire these up properly
as Spring beans but in our test, we are
going to have to do that. So here you can
see in the test I am managing this in
the Spring configuration and notice that
there's no Spring configuration being
brought in. So these are still as unit
tests.
So I come over here you can see how fast
it runs so at 32 test I spend a bit of
time coding this up for you guys. So 32 tests
passing roughly a tenth of a second. So
I'll take that any day as far as getting
good test coverage and notice that in
these tests, I'm also doing very granular
testing. Now we did want to test this
so now I do have a complete test of
coverage. So a good test coverage on all
the converters, I am doing a type
conversion properly. Now think about how
this is going to utilized. We are going to
take from the web tier. We want to save
save this entity coming back from the
web tier. So in this, we are going to
expand out our service. So in our ReceipeService, we are going to accept in a
RecipeCommand. We'll take in the command
object and we wanted to persist to the
database. So now we've added in the
converters, they're Spring managed
components and so I added that into the
constructor. So we have two new
properties. Again, they're being
marked as final so these injected beans
can now be manipulated within the class and then on line
54 there is my new implementation. And the way this is going to work is the
RecipeCommand comes in and we convert
it using converter. Now it's still just a
POJO. It's not a Hibernate object. That's
why I called it a detachedRecipe so it
is detached from the Hibernate context. And now within the repository, we are
going to go in and save that
detachedRecipe and underneath the
covers, what's going to happen with
Spring Data JPA, if it's new it's going
to create a new entity. If it is existing
it's going to do actually a merge
operation. So if you haven't set a
property it's probably going to leave
whatever's there. So if something is there
and you have a null value, it's going to
not null it out it will keep that remaining
property. So it's going to merge in those
two entities and it generally works
pretty good. But sometimes you do have to
watch how these merge operations of work.
Now the RecipeRepository is going to
return back a new instance of the saved
recipe and in this, we are going to
convert it back. And actually because of
this, I am going to make this
transactional too. So because we are going
to go through the converters outside of
the Spring context. So remember the way
to Spring Data JPA, repositories work
that they will implicitly start and
transaction. And then here we are going
to return it and I did write a
integration test for this. So let's take
a quick look at that. So previously we
used the data JPA test and I want to
show you something here that's very
important. You can see that I got a little failure. This is a nice new feature in IntelliJ
2017.2 coming out this July of 2017
and where you can run the test right
from the the gutter of the code. Now
what's going to happen here is we get a
failure and that's because we're using
the Data JPA test and this is a test
place. So it brings up a light and
Spring context which is in this case,
what's happening is it cannot find our
RecipeService implementation. That's
because we're using a lighter-weight
slice. So what we want to do is use the
SpringBootTest annotation and this is
going to bring up the whole context for us
based on our Spring Boot configuration. Now when I run it, you can see that it
it's going to run properly.
It does take a little longer because we
are bringing up the entire context but
you do see that it comes up and when I
hide this test, I'll step through what
we're doing there. So now I do like to
use public static final strings. It could be
private technically for any values that
I'm going to be testing against. And here
I'm bringing up the Spring context. I'm
going to ask it for a RecipeService
from Spring as well as a RecipeRepository and then the converters. And if
you notice on line 42, it is my actual test
and I didn't mark that as Transactional
because I am working with these entities
outside the Spring. No sorry, the
transactional context. I am accessing
lazily loaded property. So I need to
have that as transactional keep that
inside of the context. Now if you
remember we were talking about
behavior driven development. They have given
them when. You'll be looking at a lot of
my tests, you're going to see me
following that pattern. So given when then
on line 42 to 46, I'm setting up the data.
So I am going out the repository and I'm
asking it for a findAll that's going to
get all the data that's coming out that's getting initialized by our
bootstrap class. So that gets initialized
and I'm asking it for iterable of the
recipe. So I'm just going to grab the
first one. I really don't care which one.
I'm just grabbing the first one that
comes out of there. So this test
will survive any changes that we do in
the future if we add more data. If we
take way that it will obviously fail but if we
add more data and evolve this, this will
continue to run. So this is not dependent on a
specific one. Now I get ahold of that and
then I convert it over to a command
object. So to emulate with the front-end
is going to do to create a command POJO,
just a plain old java object and then on
line 49, is where I said for when clause. So I'm going to set the description to
new description and this is changing the
description from what was there
and then I'm going to call our RecipeService and save that command object.
That's going to go into the
implementation that we just looked at to
go in and save it using Spring Data JPA. Now I want to serve that I didn't have
anything unexpected. So when I save it,
remember that service take a quick look
at that. So when we save it, we get back a
new recipe object from Spring Data JPA
and then we are going to return back
a new command object. So it's a brand new
object that we're turning back in the
test. So we want to make sure that I get
the proper ID. So actually the first
thing we want to do is on line 53 is
that make sure that the returned object
has the proper description. So we've
changed the description and now we're
getting back the proper description and
then we do the same assertions here on
54, 55 and 56. Those lines there are making
sure that sets been change and any
unintentional
actions, we want to make sure
that there was nothing on unattended
happen. So our sets are the same, our ideas
are the same, the description has changed.
If you notice, this is a higher level. I'm not
going to test every single property here.
I'm just going to get a relative guess
and make sure that it is functioning
as I expected it to. Be more detailed
testing that's going to be safe for the
unit tests. Now I'm not going to step
through every single test that I wrote
but it will all be in GitHub. So we have
a lot of new tests out of here so you
can see a lot more advanced testing
Spring and we're getting into different
more challenging scenarios. So you saw
that the combination of very fast unit
tests and then I added in another
integration test that is going to test
the interaction with the database as we
want. So this is a pretty typical
scenario when we're using the Spring
framework to bring up two unit tests
like that and try to avoid as much as
possible running the Spring context. But
when we need the Spring context as we
have in our integration test here, we
absolutely do use it and we do a Spring
to give us all configured components.
So I'm going to check this into GitHub. You'll have complete access to it.
Just by giving you an idea of the scope of the
changes. So there's actually over 30
files that have changed for all the
converters file the name of class name
to target name. So sometimes you want to
break these out into a little bit more
organization but I will use packages to
help out with organization if I have a
lot of converter objects. But in this
case it's not too bad. It's pretty
apparent with what each one is doing. So I'm going to go ahead and check this
into GitHub. I strongly encourage you to
go through the unit tests and the
integration tests and see what's going
on in there. Now in the next video we are
going to look at hooking this up to the
front end and get a form to actually go
in and create a new recipe. And because
we are using a new recipe inside what's
going to happen is we don't have that ID
value set. So Spring and Hibernate are
going to know that we need to create a
new one and not update an existing one.
But we'll be using the same exact
pattern for both save and update of
those entities.